Problem:
Longest Consecutive Subsequence

Given an array arr[] of non-negative integers. 
Find the length of the longest sub-sequence such that elements in the subsequence are consecutive integers, 
the consecutive numbers can be in any order.

Examples:

Input: arr[] = [2, 6, 1, 9, 4, 5, 3]
Output: 6
Explanation: The consecutive numbers here are 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. These 6 numbers form the longest consecutive subsquence.
Input: arr[] = [1, 9, 3, 10, 4, 20, 2]
Output: 4
Explanation: 1, 2, 3, 4 is the longest consecutive subsequence.

Difficulty:
Easy

Date:
17 July 2026

Time Taken:
60 minutes

Could I solve it myself?
No

Approach:
Sort the array. Initiate a variable the stores the previous shortest value, a count the count the sequence,
and a variable longest that stores the longest subsequence. The shortest value stores the previous shortest element,
then it is used to compare, if the shortelement is equal to 1 less then the current value than the counter is increased, else
the shortest element is replaced with current value. At the end the longest is the maximum between the count and the previous longest sequence.

Time Complexity:
Brute force - O(n^2)


Space Complexity:
O(1)

Mistakes:
- Initialized the counter value incorrectly in the else if statement.
- Forgetting to taken an extra variable as shortest element.


What did I learn?
Learned how to find the logest subsequence by taking few variables and iterating the loop.

Can I explain this to someone else?
No

Need revision?
Yes

Solution for both the question:
Sort the array. Initiate a variable the stores the previous shortest value, a count the count the sequence,
and a variable longest that stores the longest subsequence. The shortest value stores the previous shortest element,
then it is used to compare, if the shortelement is equal to 1 less then the current value than the counter is increased, else
the shortest element is replaced with current value. At the end the longest is the maximum between the count and the previous longest sequence.
